Chapter 20 web api rest (#18)
LaunchCodeEducation/csharp-web-dev-curriculum: content/web-api-rest/reading/what-is-rest/_index.md

{{% /notice %}}
   
### What is State?

State is transitional application data that can be viewed or changed by external interaction. Though state is abstract, programmers interact with it using CRUD operations. 

Imagine viewing, or reading, the state of an application's data as it transitions through each of the following interactions:

1. **Before creating**: Empty state
2. **After creating**: Initial state
3. **After updating**: New state
4. **After deleting**: Empty state

You can see that the state is defined by how the data exists after its latest interaction. 

{{% notice blue "Note" "rocket" %}}
The concept of state is both the most abstract and most fundamental aspect of REST. 
{{% /notice %}}

### What is a Representation?

Representation refers to a depiction of state that is usable in a given context. In the REST context, state must be 
represented in a way that is portable and compatible with both the client and API. 

JSON is a data format that provides structure, portability and compatibility. For these reasons, JSON is the standard representation used when transferring state between a client application and an API. 

> {{% notice blue "Example" "rocket" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% notice green "Example" "rocket" %}}
```

The state of a *single* ``CodingEvent`` entity is represented as a single JSON object:

> {{% /notice %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> {{% notice blue "Example" "rocket" %}}
> The state of a *single* ``CodingEvent`` entity is represented as a single JSON object:
> {{% /notice %}}
> 
> ```json {linenos=table}
> {
>     "Id": 1,
>     "Title": "Halloween Hackathon!",
>     "Description": "A gathering of nerdy ghouls...",
>     "Date": "2020-10-31"
> }
> ```
> 
> Whereas the state of a collection of `CodingEvents` is represented by a JSON array of objects.
> 
> ```json {linenos=table}
> [
>     {
>     "Id": 1,
>     "Title": "Halloween Hackathon!",
>     "Description": "A gathering of nerdy ghouls...",
>     "Date": "2020-10-31"
>     },
>     ...
> ]
> ```
> 
> Notice that the state here is represented as the collective state of all of the ``CodingEvents`` in the collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% notice green "Example" "rocket" %}}
The state of a *single* ``CodingEvent`` entity is represented as a single JSON object:

```json {linenos=table}
{
    "Id": 1,
    "Title": "Halloween Hackathon!",
    "Description": "A gathering of nerdy ghouls...",
    "Date": "2020-10-31"
}
```

Whereas the state of a collection of `CodingEvents` is represented by a JSON array of objects.

```json {linenos=table}
[
    {
    "Id": 1,
    "Title": "Halloween Hackathon!",
    "Description": "A gathering of nerdy ghouls...",
    "Date": "2020-10-31"
    },
    ...
]
```

Notice that the state here is represented as the collective state of all of the ``CodingEvents`` in the collection.
{{% /notice %}}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% /notice %}}

```

Reviewer: These code blocks should be include in the green Example block.
